All right.
We've gone closer and closer.
Let's reach ultimate object oriented programming in JavaScript.
We have our constructor functions that while we're a little funny nobody really liked the prototype
ways of adding methods.
So with E6 javascript finally got the class keyword object oriented programming was created with the
class idea in mind.
A class being a blueprint of what we want created.
Let's see how this works with the new E6 classes.
We can now do this.
We have the elf class that we just simply defined like that.
And then we have a constructor and then the constructor is something that gets run every time we instantiate
or use the new keyword on a class.
So this goes inside.
Over here and we take in the name and weapon parameter.
Now the beauty with classes is that as object oriented programming suggests we want to keep all our
functionality inside of this box all the properties all the state all the methods all the actions together
in a nice contained environment a class an object.
So instead of having these in a separate location I can now just simply add attack in here as part of
our class and this method can now act upon our state.
So I can just return
right here and I can get rid of this ugly prototype how nice and easy was that.
Let's see if this works.
If I click Run look at that it's all working.
How much cleaner is that.
And if you're coming from an object oriented programming language like Java or C++ this is going to
look really familiar to you and this is the true beauty of object oriented programming.
We're modeling real life scenarios.
We're creating an elf class that is a blueprint of what we want else to be like well else have names
they have weapons and they can act upon these properties like attack or built and we can just keep adding
things here and we have one location that holds this entire elf object and anytime we need to update
something or change or add a method we can just change it in here and all the instances of the Elf will
get that update.
Now I keep seeing this word instance and this is a common term that you'll hear a lot when it comes
to object oriented programming.
And when we use classes an instance happens when we call this class and create an object out of this
class.
So for example Peter is an instance of elf.
For example if I do console dialogue and do Peter and luckily for us JavaScript has an instance of then
do elf VI click right here.
I get true Peter is an instance of ELF so with Sam.
But if I do elf instance of Peter I'll get false because while it's the other way around.
So instance of is this language that we can use an object oriented programming to say we're creating
an instance of a class.
This with the new keyword is called instantiation where instantiating a class.
If I remove the keyword from here the new keyword and I click Run I see that class constructor elf cannot
be invoked without new we even get a nice error saying hey we need.
We need new here.
Don't forget new which is really really nice.
All right everybody cheers get up throw your chairs throw your laptops all right don't throw your laptops
but we finally have classes we finally have object oriented programming in JavaScript right.
Well not really.
You see this is what we call syntactic sugar underneath the hood in JavaScript.
We're still using prototype all inheritance we're not using classes like classes work in other languages.
This is the closest that JavaScript is going to get to classes underneath the hood they're still using
the new keyword with the prototype and you're thinking to yourself well why don't we just all this trouble
why don't we just create classes from the beginning in JavaScript.
Wouldn't it just make everything easier now as we'll find out.
Classes aren't necessarily the answer to everything as we'll see when we get to functional programming
but also there's an interesting story or quote behind why javascript doesn't have classes.
This is a quote from the Creator.
Brendan Eich of javascript if I had down classes in JavaScript back in 1995 I'd have been told that
it was too much like Java or that JavaScript was competing with Java and I was under the marketing orders
to make it look like Java but not make it too big for its britches.
So the interesting thing was that Brendan Dyke was tasked with creating a language that would attract
Java developers that were really used to classes and object oriented programming concepts.
But at the same time they wanted to create a competing language and for marketing purposes they couldn't
make it the exact same.
So he had to be creative.
So he used prototype all inheritance which is quite different from how classes work in languages like
Java and C++ in other languages.
Classes are an actual thing in JavaScript.
Classes are still just objects.
Everything in Javascript is an object.
So in an interview if you get asked hey does javascript have classes.
Well yes they do as syntactic sugar but class keyword is still just prototype all inheritance.
And some people call this pseudo classical inheritance because it's not real classical inheritance.
Looking at this I hope you see how have we gone from repetitive code that was harder and harder to maintain
to something that's a little bit more organized.
We've created this grouping of functionality so that it's easier to maintain and extend by the way.
You may be asking yourself why do we just add attack to the constructor.
Why do we just put it outside over here.
And this is actually a very interesting question that you might get in an interview.
You see every time we use the new keyword and create or instantiate a class the constructor function
gets run because this constructor function needs to get run because each elf has a unique name and perhaps
a unique weapon but attack is shared by all instances of the class if we moved attack to the constructor
that's going to take up memory space.
Right instead of creating an attack function from each object which is what we would do if we added
to the constructor and that's something that we've been trying to avoid.
Instead we just have one one function in one location that all these instances can access.
So there you have it.
I hope you start to see the beauty in efficiency.
Let's take a break and talk a little bit more about this in the next video.
I'll see you on that one.
Bye bye.